We often wondered why we got in the RVs and he didn't.
We never did know.
And we didn't know even then how you got in.
How did you know you had been selected?
One of the baseball players came with a baseball bat and announced that I was an RV.
And he hit me with a baseball bat across my rear end.
Lefty Matthews was his name.
And you became an RV as a junior?
Yes, yes.
And what did... Well, now, wait a minute.
I get confused on account of that fifth year.
I was in the RVs two years, so I guess it must have been my senior year, then it carried over to my fifth year.
And what were the RV's functions?
Where did y'all go?
We didn't make very many trips.
that I can recall, as a matter of fact, I don't recall we made any like going to Waco to a place like that.
Of course, I was in the band, and where we went something like that, I would usually go with the band rather than the RVs, but most of ours was things that happened there on the campus.
You did not go to the governor's inaugural then, the way they do now?
No, I don't think so.
Well, I know we didn't, and I don't recall that the band went to the inaugural either.
And you wore that white outfit with the high neck, the white uniform?
Yes, yes.
I don't know now if we ever wore a white uniform or not, to tell you the truth of it.
Well, we must have.
On a football weekend, was there a Yale practice on Friday night?
Oh yes, yeah.
Where was it held?
Front of the Y, on the Y steps.
And everybody turned out?
And you had a good time?
Well, maybe some of the seniors didn't, but you can bet the freshmen were all there.
And then you all went to the football game, and you seniors had a good time.
If the Aggies won, did you throw a yell eater into... Not at that time.
Oh, didn't do that?
I don't know when that started.
let's see coach Bible describe him as far as you recall well I remember looking back I thought he was a very good coach I think everybody liked him he won a lot of football games and
We hated to see him leave, particularly go to Texas.
Well, he went to Nebraska first.
Went to Nebraska first, yes.
And Coach Anderson, did you know him at all?
I knew him.
I didn't know him personally, but I knew him there.
track coach, as well as helping, I guess, help Bible and football.
Right.
And let's see, mention Mr. Cashin and Red and Jim Cashin, they come later, his sons.
Yes, they came later.
Let's see, were there some famous visitors that came to the campus that you recall?
You said Paul Whiteman.
Paul Whiteman's the primarily one that I remember, but... Did the governor come over?
Did Ma and Paul Ferguson ever come over?
I don't recall that any of them ever did.
I can't remember doing anything in particular with someone like that being there.
The only one that I can think about was the time we went to Houston for Marshall Foch.
uh let's see did students have nicknames in those days oh yes what was yours i had two pat and irishman well most of them was pat irishman irishman somebody one of the guys picked that up but primarily was pat uh and uh did y'all whip out then no not like they do today yeah
Did you have to learn the names of everybody in your outfit?
I guess we did have a whip out, but it's, I don't know what we called it now.
We had to learn the names of the sophomores, particularly the ones whose room you cleaned up, and somebody, of course, always trying to get you to
to call somebody a different name so they could paddle you.
Let's see, and y'all drilled, where did y'all drill?
Primarily on the drill field.
The same one that's there today.
I was trying to think
Well, I guess the other thing, when we had machine gun practice or something like that, we went back over all the railroad tracks someplace with some of that.
But most of it was right there on the drill field.
And the cavalry, where did they keep their horses?
Back in the horse barn?
Back in the horse barn, but I don't remember.
Well, it must have been back there close to where the...
Coliseum was, or whatever they called the place.
The pavilion?
I can't—the pavilion, yeah.
I don't remember that they were over across the railroad track at all.
Most of them—well, now wait a minute.
Cavalry.
I was thinking—I'm trying to get—I'm getting the Parson Cavalry confused with the regular Army Cavalry.
I guess they kept back over around the pavilion.
Because when y'all had a real review, did the cavalry units come by on horses in the 20s?
Yes, and the artillery had their guns pulled by the horses, too.
Was there even an outfit called the Army Air Corps?
Yes.
Oh, really?
Nutz Weiland, O.P.
Weiland, was a junior my freshman year.
And, well, I guess you know the rest of the story about him.
Well, it's my understanding that he was in command of the Air Forces that were furnishing the cover for the people landing on Normandy.
Oh.
And in the Memorial Student Center building, there's one of those
things hanging in there, O.P.
Weiland.
Oh, okay.
In school, we knew him as Nuts, Nuts Weiland, but everybody else in the Army, I understand, called him Opie.
Let's see, describe, where'd you get your boots?
I got mine secondhand from a student.
How much?
$20, $25.
I understand that at that time,
Everybody wanted Lou Casey boots.
That was the main boot seller.
And I don't remember whether they had to go to San Antonio to get them or whether somebody there on the campus furnished them.
But I bought mine from some senior that was graduating and his boots fit me.
Was Hollicks even in existence then?
Yes.
They were there.
I think a lot of them bought their boots at Hollicks.
How did you feel that
junior year when you put those boots on for the first time?
Well, I thought, man alive.
Got it made.
And your Aggie ring, do you remember what it cost?
I think around $25, but incidentally I lost my original one in 1983.
I got a new one and that one cost me right around $300.
$280, I think it was.
Do you have any ring stories before you lost that, or do you have any other stories?
Well, in those days, the juniors had what they called a junior pin, which was a spread eagle kind of a pin.
And those days, everybody had a long watch fob, a wide watch fob.
And I had my junior pin on that watch fob.
And then later on, when I got in the RVs, I took that,
junior pin and the RV pin I had a little chain put in between the two.
And I guess I wore that and then after I graduated all I put it in a little jewelry box and my daughter had it up until a few years ago and had it in a safe in their home and they got robbed and they took the safe out.
It was a small one but weighed two or three hundred pounds but they were able to get it out.
And lost that thing along with some other memorabilia that I wished I had today.
But I really liked that little junior pin and the RV pin chained together again.
It was a really nice little outfit.
What does an Aggie ring really signify?
Well, I feel like that wherever you go and you see that ring, you've got a friend.
I remember one night in Chicago, I was at the airport there going somewhere, and over ten or twelve feet from me was a fellow sitting over there, and I was sure that he had an Aggie ring on, but I didn't go over and introduce myself to him.
But I just feel that now you've got a friend wherever you might go and approach him properly and be able to do most anything for you.
Now, what is it that builds this Aggie spirit?
Well, as far as I was concerned, when you're in that Aggie band for, like I was, five years, and you march that Cadet Corps into the Miss Hall twice a day for five years, that really gets the Aggie spirit into you.
And when you're a drum major your fifth year,
That really does it for you.
Were you a drum major?
Oh, yes.
I'm the oldest living drum major today.
Describe what being a drum major included.
What were the duties of the drum major?
Well, all I had to do was to get out in front of the band when we go to march and head them out.
Lead them off.
Well, of course, the band director actually kept the time and set the cadence for us.
But that was about all I had to do was just lead the band.
Did you inspect them?
No.
No, that was up to the captain to do that.
No, I guess all I had to do was just lead the band down the street.
Now, your uniform was what, as the band?
Just a regular cadet uniform.
Senior boots?
Senior boots, uh-huh.
And what kind of baton did you use?
It's over, well, it's just like the one that's in the building now, the Cadet Corps building now.
Big, long one?
Big, long one, uh-huh.
And incidentally, my saxophone is in there that I played in the band with.
And what cadence did you all march to then?
I think it was around 80 beats per minute.
Oh, so a little slower than today.
It may be.
Because now it's 90.
Oh, is it?
I often wonder, but I think 80 was the ones that we had set.
And they also do six to five, six strides for five yards for the football.
I don't recall that we measured it at that time.
Incidentally, I marched with a band in that 100th reunion.
Darn near killed me, but I did it.
But I told them, although I was, like I say, the oldest drum major, I wanted to march with the band, but I didn't want to get out there in front, because we didn't do all those fancy things, and I didn't want to mess the deal.
But I had a little difficulty in making those turns with them, but I didn't mess up the band, but I could have very easily.
in those times when you were the drum major did you ever have you remember any goof ups any missteps that the band had no i can remember we for one of the games down in houston i had to stop the band because the crowd was just coming in on the street and we couldn't get through without just elbow to elbow coming
So we stopped the band until the police on the motorcycles cleared out the band.
I mean, they cleared out the street and let us through.
But I don't recall of any unfortunate situations anywhere that we ever had.
All right, was that the march down Main Street?
Down Main Street, somewhere near the Rice Hotel.
Now, what was the easiest place for a muster, I mean, a court trip march?
Where was the best place?
They were all about the same.
We had no problems anywhere.
I can't think of any place.
Usually we'd go down to Main Street until we got to the reviewing stand and then make either a right or left turn and do a countermarch and come back and face the reviewing stand as the Cadet Corps marched by.
What team did the Aggies most want to beat in those years?
Same as today, University of Texas.
And what did y'all call it then?
Did y'all call it TU then?
Yeah, just TU.
I don't think we used the little t and the little u today like they do.
Okay.
We just called it TU.
All right.
After Texas, was there anybody else that was next in the pecking order that you wanted to beat?
I can't remember that there was.
Or the rest of them.
We consider the rest of them more as just little schools.
Let's see, did you all take any long trip with the band?
No.
You didn't go up to Kentucky to play?
No, furthest from College Station was Dallas.
Dallas or Fort Worth.
But let's see, were you there at the 12th man game in Dallas?
No.
No, I couldn't afford it, I guess, and I didn't go.
Okay.
All right, as you are preparing to leave the campus when you're going to graduate, how well prepared did you feel A&M had made you for the real world?
Well, I think I felt like I had a pretty good education and was able to hold down a job.
I guess one good feeling, or let me have a good feeling, was the fact that I already had a job before I graduated.
When they gave you that offer, did they give you something in writing?
No, not at that time.
I got a letter a little later on telling me that I had been accepted and reported to the General Electric Company and connected to New York on July the
8th, I think it was, 1926.
Did they offer to pay your way up there?
No, sir.
Come up there and work for 50 cents an hour.
And they didn't give you any signing bonus?
No, indeed.
Did the job turn out to be what they said it was going to be?
Yes, yes.
I always wanted to get back into the sales department.
That was the idea I had because
I knew some people with General Electricity in Dallas, and I thought I'd like to get back into Dallas.
And I let it be known when I went up to Schenectady that eventually I wanted to get back in Dallas or somewhere close by.
And after I'd been up there fourteen months, there was this opening that came to Tulsa.
Well, actually there was a man there that they had had only about a year who was incidentally
graduate A&M, but something went wrong anyhow and they let him go and they had to have somebody in a hurry and although I wanted to stay in Schenectady about another year and a half, get a little more experience.
But anyhow, that talked me into going on down to Tulsa and I did.
And so I went down there after about 14 months training in Schenectady.
All right, back to your, do you remember the final review with the Corps before graduation?
Uh-huh.
Did anybody from your family come up for that?
My mother was there.
She was there at the final review.
Describe it as well as you remember.
How big was the crowd and what happened?
Well, there was a big crowd there, but I guess I was so excited and worried about leading the band out there in review that I wasn't paying too much attention to what was going on.
But it was something you'll never forget in all your life, was that final review.
All right, and so you led the band.
Uh-huh.
Then you go over to the side and watch the new band come through, yeah, with a new...
new band drum major, but I can't remember the band going through twice like that.
I think we played for the whole thing without changing.
I know that Jack Pink became the drum major after I, well, I'm sure they didn't because they weren't appointed until that fall.
So same band, I did the whole thing.
Okay, all right.
Then commencement, where was commencement held?
It was in Guyon Hall.
In Guyon?
Uh-huh.
Do you remember, describe what commencement was like?
Well, there again, of course, all the graduates were formed in Guyon Hall, and those that wanted to, plus their parents, they were all there, and the student body that wanted to come in and watch the proceedings were there.
The hall was pretty well filled up, and as the names were called each individual, they walked across the podium and got their
diploma and went back to their seat and the weight of it was all over again.
Was Dr. Bezell still the president?
He was there, yes.
And shook hands?
Yes.
Was your diploma rolled up?
Rolled up, yes.
Okay.
So just like today?
Just like today, yeah.
Was it done seriously?
Did anybody try to do any pranks?
No, it was a very serious matter.
Was there a baccalaureate event then?
A baccalaureate?
I don't recall that there was.
I've never heard of one.
I don't recall there was.
I'm about finished.
What have we left out?
Can you think of some subjects we should have touched on?
I mentioned about the firecracker in the piano.
Oh, yes sir.
I don't think I'll ever forget that for some reason.
I agree.
Then I mentioned about the offer of going to London.
Yes, sir.
Rodeo.
You remember any other than the young man who died in the train, you remember any other sad events?
Well, I don't know whether it was Soupy Woods.
He used to play the bugle in the mornings to wake up.
And I don't remember whether it was during his regime
when Reveille got its name or not.
But they had that horn that was the man to blow in down there close to Sullivan's statue.
And Soupy Woods was the bugler at that time.
And I don't know when, like I say, whether or not it was at that time that the dog got the name of Reveille or not, but I think it came through later on.
Was the statue of Sully where it is now?
Yes, same place.
Were you all expected to polish it?
Some of them were.
I don't think anybody from the band ever had to do it.
We had a few privileges being in the band.
Oh, Mr. Rudder told me that when he was a student in the 30s, there was a light up on top of the academic building.
Prixie's Moon.
And it was good to shoot at it.
Oh, yeah.
Every once in a while somebody would shoot it out.
Is that right?
Yeah.
Were there ever any holes in the roof from where they... I don't know that there were.
I heard that there were, but I don't know that there were.
I never did see any, at least.
Did people refer to Dr. Bezell as Prexy?
Yes.
He was the Prexy.
Prexy Bezell.
When Mr. Rudder called himself the Prexy, we didn't know what he was talking about at first.
That was a new term to us.
A new term to us.
And let's see, we mentioned bonfire and you didn't remember bonfire and you didn't remember a muster and silver taps.
But yes, yell practice.
And let's see, any other jokes or Aggie good bull that you remember?
Pranks?
Well, in the shacks,
One of the fellows, Shaq, caught on fire.
And Percy Zimmerman, a good friend of mine, and Arthur Elliott lived together.
Arthur still lives in Corpus Christi.
But I don't know whether he was kidding or not, but Percy always
was kidding me about setting his room on fire.
I don't know who did it, and I don't know whether they ever found out or whether it was just an accident, probably.
I don't think anybody set it on fire.
I think they may have spilled some coals out one day building a fire or something like that.
But Percy used to always kid me about being the guy that set fire in his room, but that's certainly an incident that I can recall other than the fried turkey sandwich.
If you could have all of the Aggie faculty staff from that era back here today, which ones would you want most to express your appreciation to?
Who would you most want to thank?
Well the person that I can remember mostly and I had very little to do with was Ike Ashman.
He
stuck in my mind for some reason or another.
He was a commandant at the time.
And all of the professors were about equal as well as I recall.
They were all good, did their job, and what I didn't learn was my fault.
I just had that one unfortunate situation with a calculus professor that, as far as I'm concerned, he just didn't explain anything.
But they were all all right.
Now, y'all didn't calculate your grade point ratio, did you then?
No, we didn't have grade points.
That's what I thought.
You knew what you'd passed and what you'd failed.
I had trigonometry in high school and had to repeat it my freshman year up there at A&M.
And shoot, I walked through that.
And as a matter of fact, I
had pretty good grades my freshman year I guess and maybe for that reason I loafed a little bit my sophomore year and that's when calculus got me.
Make-believe someone walked up to you tomorrow and handed you a check for a million dollars and there was one condition
you had to pass it on to Texas A&M, but you could decide what it would be used to do.
If you were to do something very generous for A&M, what part of A&M would you most want to help?
Well, I think I would divide it between the Cadet Corps and the band.
Okay.
I think the band is one of the
biggest things that brings attention to the university.
It's unfortunate that they don't show more of it on television, but I think wherever they go, the people that are in the stadium are very well impressed with the Aggie band, their character, the way they handle themselves, the things they do, and the presentation they make to the public.
I think it's an attribute to the university.
I agree, I agree.
Somebody mentioned to me recently and the thing was, of course it can't be dumb, but he said, you know it's too bad that the A&M doesn't have a ring for those
who graduated as members of the Cadet Corps to distinguish them between the present graduates.
Well, you can't do it, of course.
It couldn't possibly be done.
But it occurs to me it would be nice to have a ring that distinguish a graduate from the Cadet Corps, as it was in those days, strictly a military school than a big, well-named university to this day.
I don't think it would work at all.
In fact, I know it wouldn't, but it was just something that somebody mentioned recently.
Let's see, getting close to the end.
What are the qualities of being an Aggie?
Well...
I think you want to try to present yourself in a manner that people will appreciate what you're trying to do for them, to help them in selecting equipment, in trying to present your product properly, to show them that you have received an education from an institution that has taught you to
take advantage of what they have tried to give you in the way of education and make a good, take an opportunity of the things that have been given to you to do.
Last question.
What feelings do you carry in your heart for Texas A&M?
I love it.
I just love to come up here.
Like I say, I miss military walk, but I do love to come back up to the college whenever I can.
I want to live 80 miles from here, and I try to come as often as I can.
Let's quit there.